---
author: Ian A. Cosden
blog_subtitle: Ian Cosden's Personal Blog on RSEs and Other Things
blog_title: Ian A. Cosden's Blog
blog_url: https://cosden.github.io/
category: iac
date: '2019-08-02 00:00:00'
layout: post
original_url: https://cosden.github.io/PEARC19
title: PEARC19 Recap
---

<p>I just returned from PEARC19 in beautiful Chicago (the image above is from my hotel window).  I’ve never been to
Chicago in the winter, so my impressions are only based on literally
perfect summer weather - but what an awesome city.</p>

<p>I made the trip to PEARC19 with a primary focus: advertise and
promote the <a href="https://us-rse.org">US-RSE</a>.  I brought 2,000 US-RSE
stickers (<a href="https://twitter.com/IanCosden/status/1155591056827830272">note to self, don’t bring that many on an airplane
again</a>). After that,
my goal was the same as any other conference: I went to talk to and
learn from as many other people as possible.</p>

<p>I like the PEARC conference for the same reason I don’t like it: it’s small.
It’s likely you’ll bump into everyone there at least once.  If the people you’re
looking to connect with are there, it’s perfect.  If they aren’t, then you are
likely to be disappointed.  I don’t think there is another conference that
has as many academic research computing professionals together in a single place.
SC is close but much, much, bigger.</p>

<p>My biggest takeaways from PEARC19:</p>
<ul>
  <li>We’re on to something with US-RSE.  The word is spreading organically and
it’s well received.</li>
  <li>We have to work on our RSE definition and branding.</li>
  <li>I need to follow XSEDE’s ECSS program more closely</li>
  <li>The Princeton RSE Group is held in high esteem and I’m incredibly lucky to be
here.</li>
</ul>

<p>OK. Let’s be honest. This recap turned out to be about as exciting as 3-day-old bread.  I’ll
try harder next time…</p>